---
layout: post
title: Light Things
---

Contemplation 1
---------------

We are all collections of light.  Bundled, up densified, animated, blobs of
light that are suspended in this flux of light energy.  It feels like such a
trite notion but it's true, and it deserves sincere consideration.  Just think
for a moment how awesome that is.  The sun shines down on little 'ol earth, and
all over it are these green things called plants that literally soak up
the sunshine.  They reach out and grab onto it, and bottle it up.  They jam
this stellar energy into the chemical bonds of sugars.  Then the rest of us
heterotroph chumps come along and eat it.  We get a kick out of biting into an 
apple because our taste buds can feel the bottled up sunshine in the sweet
sugar.  Our body recognizes that when it gets a hold of sugar, it's just a few
easy steps away form uncorking that sunshine in cells throughout the body.  And
of course when that happens, when our bodies crack open those molecules and
break those chemical bonds that is really just stored up sunshine, our super
clever cells are able to quick nab that sunlight before it gets away.  Our cells
grab onto it and harness it to make its own chemical bonds for any number of
purposes.  Just think about that for a good minute.  Follow the chain of
causation from nuclear furnace, through 93 million miles of space, into a leaf,
into a molecule, into a mouth, into another molecule.  Imagine the trails of
light going from one place to another, tying everything up, connecting
everything.  Imagine the pool party going on right now in the aqueous soup of
each one of your 40 trillion cells as it uncorks bottle after bottle of sunshine
and passing the energy around. It's totally wild to think about.  To me it's
pure wonder, and I try to keep these little nuggets of amazement close at hand,
because for one it's fun to think about, but also I believe that we are meant to
perceive and to contemplate these things.  In some way we are the universe's
attempt at self-reflection.

We are all collections of light. The plants that grow, grow off of collecting light, holding on to it, bundling it into chemical bonds and pushing it around. All life derives from these light bundles, all life is really a bundle of these bundles caught in a net, the light giving it shape and buoyancy, bumping jostling escaping and being caught again by another net. Until the net gets worn out, the spaces too big to hold the light bundles in.. It empties, grows limp, falls to the ground ... and then what?
