---
layout: post
title: contemplation 2
tags:
  - things_you_should_not_read
  - stuf
  - contemplations
---

know thyself.  or at least know that you don't know yourself, and then make a point to introduce yourself to yourself and ask some questions.  and do some prodding, and encouraging, and tilling.

"I know who I am... Look I'm that guy there" (pointing to a picture of himself with a group of his best buds outside of their neighborhood applebees).  

we take it for granted that we "know" ourselves.  mirrors and selfies are ubiquitous. we so easily recognize our own faces, and mistakenly think that we know ourselves.  we don’t. most don’t.  most just know what their faces look like, and maybe the fact that they like to dip their french fries in ranch dressing and that taylor swift songs annoy them.  for those who say they do know themselves, there are three possibilities.

one they actually do know themselves and that’s awesome congrats, you can join a rare league including socrates and buddha and jesus.  

two, they're wrong they don’t know themselves.

and three they are sort of right in that they know a cheapened simplified version of themselves, a static rut dwelling fiend that responds reflexively in strictly idealogical patterns… this is all to common i’m afraid.  

but back to the mirrors, and to those who don't know themselves and know it. there are those times that you look in the mirror and you don't quite recognize who you’re looking at.  maybe you happen to make prolonged eye contact with yourself and you sit with it, viewing yourself as if from the outside looking in, and realizing the black hole in the middle of the eye is still just as mysterious as any other person's black hole.  I think these are great moments, because it can shock us out of the rut, and can bring us face to face to the fact that there's so much we don't know about ourselves, it suggests that there is much to be uncovered and let out into the light, it reveals the latent potential within, and the potential without, the potential of each day. the opportunity and possible in some way the obligation each day to renew and reinvent ourselves to stay out of the rut and to look hard and honest at ourselves such that we must be reintroduced to ourselves continuously, and in doing, be re-acquainted with the unknown potential, and maybe spurred into action. if we can achieve this state it means that we are growing. and growth is good when it comes to our inner selves, because there are no constraints on, or depletable resources of, the inner self, it is literally infinite, growth can continue like cancer and have no negative consequences… the constant reintroduction to ourselves, the taking in from without and the tilling of the inner soil, that is the aim, and then to strive to know this continually new self.  I want to look in the mirror and see the unknown, the fresh, the striving and realizing, the lifey jostle that emanates from a well fed, well oxygenated, furnace within.
